Thursday, the nineteenth of November 2020, we had a class discussion on the philosophical ideas of philosopher David Hume, and Aristotle's four causes. The most major question that sat around in the conversation was "Does a person have the right to change the purpose of an object?". I was mostly silent in this conversation as I did not know how to think about the topic of conversation, but I was pondering the question.
A chair, with wooden legs, seat, and back, was handcrafted by a skilled carpenter, for the purpose of sitting on. Is it morally wrong to use this chair for other purposes? For example, using the chair to hold folded laundry while one sorts their clothes. I, with my few months knowledge of philosophical ideas, do not see any violations of morals in this use of the chair as a place to store their clothes for a short amount of time. But make notice of my sentence that posed the example: "For example, using the chair to hold folded laundry while one sorts their clothes."
There is a difference between the uses of an entity, and the purpose of an entity. I have once played a game where competing teams were challenged to find a greater amount of uses of an object than the other team. If you try, you can see that you can find many, many uses for a shirt for example. The chair is useful for holding clothes whilst I sort them, but it may not be the sole purpose of the chair.
I would say that If you find a different use for an entity, but have no intention of repurposing the entity, then there is no chance for any wrong to have committed a wrongdoing; a sufficient condition of being wrong in changing the purpose of an entity, there must be an intention of changing the sole purpose of the entity by the person.


On a different note, how much does an entity need to change to be considered labeled as a different entity?
For example, in the 1840s, Belgian inventor/musician, Adolphe Sax began work on the instruments which would be known as Saxophones, which he patented in 1846. A local clarinet maker, then sued Sax, claiming that the form of the new saxophones are simply brass clarinets (Saxophones and Clarinets, to put it into aristotle's four causes, have the same formal cause, as they have the same instrument anatomy; and the same final cause which is to create music, of which they are essentially played in the same manner).
So again, how much does an entity need to be changed to be considered a different entity? I think a better question that should be answered first, who has the authority to determine whether two entities are of the same label?